# HIST-3812-Portfolio #

## Introduction ##

When I was younger, my love of history was reserved for the great stories, the epics about heroes, villains and the conflicts that they had throughout our species' existence. I loved to learn about the mythos of greek society, the lives of those in the trenches and the great european explorers that travelled across the pacific. As I grew older I learned more about how history and more specifically these stories were shaped by those who had the ability to record their side of the story, and how decisions in government influenced the history that was worth telling. When I came to university I wanted to explore the stories that are not told and find new ways to help share these stories and help demonstrate the morally grey nature of human history. Throughout this course, we have explored how digital tools can be used to help share these stories, and how history is presented impacts that themes and emotions it represents and emphasises. This portfolio will explore the various modules that we covered, and provide a small description of the lessons learned along the way. 

## Module 1: Physical to Digital Copies ##

In the first module, we took physical objects and found ways to digitize them. In class, our professor talked about 3D printed artifacts and brought up questions involving their authenticity and their ability to portray the themes of an artifact and truly established the question of "What makes something original." (Find more reading on this: [here](http://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/debates/text/66) & [here](http://web.mit.edu/allanmc/www/benjamin.pdf)) This discussion was crucial to me understanding how digital history was different then the history I had dealt with in the past, we were spending more time discussing the themes and ideas that were brought forward when we transitioned artifacts from the physical to the digital. The artifact that I made, a [broken model of the head of Louise McKinney](https://github.com/Robert-Oles/hist3812-Photogrammetry-) taught me about the importance of failure, and how despite the fact that the model was completely garbage, the fact that I created it, and interacted with the artifact in a new way provided so many opportunities to engage deeper into Louise McKinney as a person rather than just as a member of the Famous Five. The horrific model also reminded me of a monster, leading me to try to explore the darker themes of Louise McKinney in the rest of the modules.

## Module 2: Digital Copies to Digital Things ##

In the second module, we took our digital artifacts and tried to find compelling ways with which we could present our artifact in a new way while still being trueful to the source in order to demonstrate something new. Our professor provided us with an awesome example at the start of this module in the form of [Scary Mary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2T5_0AGdFic) a recut version of the Mary Poppins trailer that through remixing the content, paints Mary Poppins as the villian of a horror movie. With this in mind I tackled mixing the model I had created in module one with a model of [AMG Mercedes Car](https://sketchfab.com/models/b228ceebe428474083ab96407e62a6c1) into a [Frankenstien-esc creation](https://sketchfab.com/models/c4e79a9dbcc24287bbf011737b3aefa4). Once again, I tried to find something that worked for the assignment and while doing so looked deeper with the actual target. I learned about Mercedes past, which made me want to create something that again highlighted the [the morally grey background of the both Mercedes and Louise McKinney](https://github.com/Robert-Oles/Hist3812-Module3/tree/master/Object%20Biography). This was by far my favorite module, finding compelling ways to mix two artifacts together was a tonne of fun and I believe best embodied what the course was about. 

## Module 3: Digital Things to Digital Worlds ##

This module was the hardest for me, I felt that this module also was the most removed from the transformative theme that this course had embodied. In this module I created a [game on twine](http://philome.la/oles_robert/grand-librarian) that was trying to create a basic world that highlighted the difficult choices that educators make when trying to find ways to easily teach history and how often time, various restraints cause educators to simplify the way that they present content. I felt that this was reflective of my previous experience with history growing up where the world was black and white, good and evil. While I don't think this module was particularly transformative in nature, I believe that through this module I was forced to consider unique ways to try to convey the themes I had brought to the forefront in a compelling way while still remaining accurate to the source. 

## Module 4: Digital Worlds back to the Physical World ##

In this module we had to tackle how to bring back the digital artifacts back into the physical world in a compelling way. For this module I created an [Augmented Reality App](https://github.com/Robert-Oles/Hist3812-Module-4) which, when presented with Progress written in bones it would present the module 2 model. I loved this module, I felt that I learned so much about the accessibility of digital history tools, how technology engages with history and the power of smartphones. I actually took what I learned and applied it to my DIGH 2002 class. I think this module taught me to be open-minded when approaching technology that I may look at as too difficult and be willing to try anyway. I think overall for the course the lessons about failure have been some of the most beneficial for my academic and professional life. 

## Final Thoughts ##

At the start of this course our professor proposed some key questions that we explored through the last 4 modules, and after doing them I feel comfortable answering them. He asked us to explain what happens to history as it becomes digitized. Well, I think that from the modules above we can see that as history gets digitized, traditional stories, artifacts, and beliefs become more abstract with latent themes rising to the top and changing the way that we look at objects. Through the digitizing and remixing of my Louise McKinney model, I could demonstrate the morally grey nature of her life while still remaining true to the source material that wouldn't necessarily get across in the same way that the original sculpture did. I think about digital history as a way to express history in unconventional ways, people are used to stagnant exhibits, long essays and boring textbooks and by digitizing it, history has the potential to be more engaging and raise questions about traditional portrayals of historical figures and events. 

